# PyBer_Analysis

## Analysis Overview
Our client, V. Isualize, needed a detailed analysis of the different types of ride-sharing information in the PyBer service area.  The ride-sharing data is grouped into three specific statistical categories, Rural, Urban, and Suburban, and is tabulated from January, 2019 through early May, 2019.  The data includes detailed information about the number of drivers, how many rides were taken, and the averages related to the city type and date.  The final summary will provide a comprehensive comparison of how the city type and time of year affects ride-sharing in the PyBer service area.  V. Isualize will be able to use this information in making critical, future business decisions.

## Results
A thorough analysis of the data provides some critical, but relatively expected results.  Urban cities, which have the highest population count, also had the most available drivers; nearly five times that of suburban areas, and thirty times more than the driver counts in rural areas.  Of course, a higher driver count results in more rides being provided, and higher earnings overall.  However, it is important to note that the ratio between the driver count and the total accumulated fares is much smaller when comparing each city type, which demonstrates that the rate of fares per ride is higher in areas with lower populations.  This is partly a result of the overall distance that each ride encompasses.  Rides to and from rural areas will typically be greater in distance than rides taken from suburban and urban areas.  In addition, many urban rides are within a relatively small radius, staying within the city's business district.  Another important factor to consider comes with the limited number of drivers available in rural areas; fares per driver were more than three times higher than the fares assessed per driver in urban areas.  Suburban area drivers also earned nearly two times more per ride than urban area drivers.  The time of year did not seem to have a significant effect on the total fares earned each week relative to each city type.  Although every city type did experience a small spike in earnings around the third week of March.  This might be attributed to the onset on Spring, and many educational institutions on break.

## Summary
After reviewing the analysis, there are some business recommendations that can be made to help PyBer with any ride-share disparities between city types:
* Fares in urban areas should probably be increased to account for short trip distances and significantly higher number of rides, allowing drivers to earn more
* Increase driver availability in rural and suburban areas by assigning drivers relative to where they personally commute from
* Develop a structured routing system that will allow drivers to provide in-route rides to multiple commuters, and help to reduce the overall distance traveled
